This is where we host our data and code for the Great Ape Dictionary experiments. We take a community science approach to explore language using humans understanding of the gestures used by modern ape species in order to investigate to what extend humans continue to have access to this shared system.

Paper 1 - OG GAD: the Great Ape Dictionary
In the search for the origins of the human capacity for language, great ape gesture has played a key role; providing the first clear demonstrations of widespread, flexible, intentional communication outside of human language. Rich repertoires of these gestures have been described in all ape species, bar one: us. Given that the majority of great ape gestural signals are shared and their form appears biologically inherited [9,10], this creates a conundrum: where did the ape gestures go in human communication? This question is not trivial; language continues to be held up as the capacity most responsible for human ‘uniqueness’. We explored human recognition and understanding of non-human ape gestures; asking whether, once language is in place, we retain an intuitive understanding of ape gestural signals? We crowd sourced data from 17,751 participants through an online game that required them to select the meaning of chimpanzee and bonobo gestures in 20 videos. We show that humans retain an understanding of ape gestural communication, across gesture types and gesture meanings, with information on communicative context providing an, at best, marginal improvement in success. By assessing gesture comprehension, rather than production, we have accessed the great ape gestural repertoire for the first time in adult humans, drawing a continuity of understanding back to our last common ancestor.

Paper 2 - GAD 2.0 the human edition
In this paper we take a linguistics approach and probe the question of whethe rinteractive, discourse-managing gestures in humans can be traced to directive gestures in chimpanzeeas as part of a potentially universal gestural inventory shared throughout the family of great apes. We carried out two experiments (n=300 each) in which we tested (i) whether human participants would infer the same meanings that are attested in chimpanzees for chimpanzee gestures performed by a human gesturer; and (ii) whether human participants would infer gestures' meanings that derive from the chimpanzee meanings by virtue of a conduit metaphor.
